aoa-notion-printful-process

I have opened notion 
In notion i got to the Art Pieces dataset
I look in the status column to find the first row of art marked approved. 
in this example that is Title Light Through the Clouds. 
For this art I find the column in the Art Pieces dataset in notion for products linked. 
I click on the first product one in the list. 
In this example it is Light Through the Clouds — Framed Canvas Print Large Black
In the product dataset for Light Through the Clouds — Framed Canvas Print Large Black I look at the format
in this example the format is framed canvas which tells me it is a printed version of the original art because it does not say original art 
next i look at the printful product. in this example it tells me it is a framed canvas
I now open printful on the arts of aust dashboard and find product catalog in the navigation 
I find category Home & Living > Wall Art > Canvas Prints > Framed Canvas (in) and select it 
I don't have to change any product selections here, I simply click on start designing 
I am not here https://www.printful.com/dashboard/custom/wall-art/canvas-prints/framed-canvas
In the left navigation of the customization screen i start with product 
from the notion product database I find column orientation and see that it is horizontal > select horizontal in printful 
for the size and color selections notion had a row for each product and each color frame combination. For the printful > etsy listings these will be one product housing all variations. I look at all art of this title, with the same format, the same printful product to find my frame color and size variations for this product and select them from the product options
for this example the frame colors will be black, blue and white. The size options will be 24x32, 16x20, and 8x10
I now click on the uploads option in the navigation of the customization screen 
To find the print-ready file for this example I refer to the art pieces notion dataset in the field image. The image is hosted via google drive. I download the image and back in printful I click on upload and select the recently downloaded image. 
Once the image is uploaded I click Apply on the image to insert it into my customization 
once applied you are moved to the layers tab of the customization and the file should be selected and shown on the right column. 
It is important to make sure you have selected the right file, and that the print quality is Good / 300+ DPI according to printful 
in the design column you are required to adjust each variation individually to ensure the image file is set in the print template as you want it to. Any part of the design with an opaque diagonal grey stripe on it will not be printed, it will be used on the sides and back of the canvas. You also have to be sure no wite areas not part of the image are shown in the center of the template, what will be printed. the goal is to cut off as little as possible from the art file while still leaving some room for printing sliding in the phsyical printing process so I dont fill the whole bleed, just a little outside of the printed area. 
Once you adjust the design for a size, printful automatically adjust the sizes of other colored frame variations you may have.
When you are done adjusting the design for each size variant click publish. 
The first step in the publish product screen is 1 mockups. 
You can choose basic or custom. for this example I will use basic so I can select from autogenerated mockups by printful for with the art image I applied to the product. 
You can choose png or jpg. I am choosing jpg because it is default, the images are not very graphically complex as they are photo style and I have no backgrounds I am trying to keep transparent. 
the top section is a place to choose mockup style via dropdown, color and placement. 
When selecting mockup styles be sure to include a flat, a lifestyle and product details. 
I will select flat first. within this mockup category there is only one style which is auto selected. 
beneath the style you will see select mockups to add to your listing. 
i like to select the largest size variation in a dark color. for this example I am selecting the brown 24x32 flat mockup. 
As it is my first selection it automatically becomes the listing main mockup and is indicated as such by a teal star. when you have more mockups you can click any of the selected mockups to change it to the main mockup. 
For the next mockup I am going to select the mockup style Lifestyle. 
There is only one mockup style of a person holding the framed art with the hand visible. I think this is a good scale reference for size. So I will select 3 of these, one in each size, and randomly pick a color for each. 
I am now going to select mockup style product details. this is a closeup image of the corner of the frame with art visible. I think this is a great way to show the different colors so I am going to select all three color options. 
The other mockups styles are all lifestyle, I select lifestyle 2, lifestyle 3, lifestyle 4, lifestyle 5. 
I am going to select the largest art size 24x32 with a random color for each lifestyle mockup style. for this example I have selected 12 out of 20 available mockups selection spots for this listing. I can add more variation or video later in etsy. 
I am now going to click continue.
I am now in the set pricing tab in the publish product section. 
I am going to change the toggle from general to by variant. 
I am going to select the include shipping costs in calculation as we offer free shipping on prints in etsy. 
Keep the destination as USA as we do not offer international shipping right now for any products. 
in the set price table I am going to reference the prices indicated in the notion dataset for each varient. 
for this example the 24x32 is $230, the 11x14 is $180, the 8x10 is $95.
all frame color variations are the same price for each size in printful. 
I am going to click continue to move on to publish product 3 details
I am going to reference the notion art piece dataset for details. product title in printful is title in notion. 
In the Description box I remove the standard opening sentences from printful but keep the specs and disclamers.
Above the specs and disclaimers from printful I am going to put the description, story, subject, location and light description from the art piece dataset. 
Under Benefits of on-demand manufacturing I am going to uncheck this, I do not like how printful points out your shipment might take awile to the customer. 
I leave EU GPSR Compliance unchecked as we are not shipping internationally. 
I leave size guide unchecked as we used mockup to show this and I go not like the design of it from printful. 
I am going to reference the art piece data set in notion for the tags (max 13). I ask my llm to separate the tags by comma so I can easily paste them all at once in the field. For product selection I pick canvas prints as this is not original art and we are only using those two categories on etsy currently. 
I then click publish.
Printful will publish the product to my store, which automatically syncs it to the etsy store as a draft. 
I am automatically brought to the my products section of my dashboard in printful and see the new product I just created at the top of the product list. Beneath the title I am going to click on the Edit in Etsy link to finish editing the product there. 
When I click on edit in etsy I am actually brought to the product overview page for the art in printful. There is another edit in etsy link here that I am going to click. 
This link opens the etsy listing admin for the new product in a new window. 
The etsy tabs to edit are: Photo & Video, Category, Item Details, Item Options, Pricing & Shipping, How It's Made, Settings. 
Photo & Video: For now I am going to leave this section as it is, I may add a video or additional photos later, especially if I decide to feature this listing, or use it for any sort of paid marketing. 
Category: I am going to leave this as it is, the category selected is Digital Prints | Physical Item, Made to order
Item Details: I am going to leave this as it is, I already edited this in printful.
Item Options: In this section I see all variants including primary color (printful frame color), custom property (printful canvas size), SKU (this is the connector to printful and I should never alter this), Price (this is controlled via printful and should be edited in printful not etsy), Quanity (I change these from 999 to 15 or 20 sometimes randomly 15 or 20 to make the art feel a little more limited and it looks like people have already purchased some pieces), Visible (I keep all variants toggled to visible)
Personalization I leave as is unselected as we do not customize these prints for orders. 
Item Options: I am going to leave this section as it is. My tags are included from printful as well as the frame color options. I can select up to 5 materials, secondary color, and put in width by various unit options and heigh by various unit options. As each variant has its own width and heigh I should not give the overal product a width and height. 
Price & Inventory: In this section I toggle allow restock requests on. It is not necessary but it's easy and doesn't hurt. 
Processing profile is from printful, made to order 2-7 days. shipping option is from printful and if it needs to be changed it should be edited in printful. Item weight and size and preview shipping cost are not applicable because of drop shipping. returns and exchanges is a defauly 30 day policy that is edited in the etsy store settings and does not need to be changed for specific products. 
GPSR manufactorer and customer information can be skipped as we are not shipping internationally. 
How its made: should be who made it? I did and what is it? a finished product. How does your shop product this item selection options can be skipped it is not necessary and nothing is specific to this example enough to pick one. What toold are used to make this item? Skip this section for reprints as it is not necessary and doesnt add value. Production partners for this listing can stay as none for now, we may want to consider adding printful in the future to make it clear we do not print and ship printed copies of original art in house. 
Settings: Shop section can stay as is, we selected it in printful. Featured Listing: I am got to toggle this on as it is the newest product. Etsy Ads: I am going to toggle this on, we are not currently running any ads though. Renewal options: I am going to change the selection from manual to automatic so I am never in a position to think it is online but it is not and we do not have a limited quantity because the product is create on demand. 
I am going to now click on publish with changes.  